the food is so scarce that more than two
adults are needed to search for it if a
nest full of chicks is to be kept
supplied this bird is not the parent of
these nestlings it's one of last year's
chicks who were stayed on to help raise
this year's brood young female helpers
after a year or two usually leave to
look for territories of their own but
young males may stay on for as long as
seven years one of them may eventually
inherit the family estate and nesting
site when the old breeding male dies but
most will never father a brood instead
of producing their own young they find
their reproductive reward in helping to
raise their younger brothers and sisters
[Music]
guarding the food supply is just as
important as collecting it and some of
the young helpers act as sentinels
keeping an eye out for thieves this is a
trespasser from a neighboring territory
sneaking in to try and steal food that
can't be allowed
[Music]
back to normal duties another intruder
and indigo snakes it too is hungry and
the meal it is searching for could well
be a Jade chick
so teamwork saves the nest indeed as a
result of studies here we now know for
certain that pairs with teams to help
them are very much more successful in
rearing their young recently though it's
been discovered that this form of
cooperation is quite widespread among
birds some species of wrens and
woodpeckers and more hands all use this
form of cooperation under some
circumstances has indeed do some mammals
you